--- 
title: PLANET ARGON is my Google
layout: post
---
Late breaking news (I really need to speak to my publishing staff about getting these out on time): Monday, May 1st was my first day as part of the great team at [PLANET ARGON](http://www.planetargon.com). Everyone extended themselves to get me up to speed on the working of the company. And, in truly classy fashion, the company treated us to a team welcome lunch on my behalf.

I am delighted and honored to be working with these dedicated, enthusiastic, highly skilled and intelligent folks. Innovation in web applications in general and Rails in particular is occuring at such a rapid pace and [PLANET ARGON](http://www.planetargon.com) is committed to being in the thick of it. On the day I started, if you pulled up google search, typed 'ruby rails development hosting', and hit I'm Feeling Lucky, it would send you straight to the [PLANET ARGON](http://www.planetargon.com) website. I'm here to contribute all my expertise to these endeavors, and I expect to learn a tremendous amount along the way.

So, it may seem odd to compare a small company in Portland, OR to that giant of search engines, etc. but here's the connection: People I know who aspire to work at Google do so because of the company's perceived technological innovation and excellence. And that's the connection for me. The [PLANET ARGON](http://www.planetargon.com) team is pursuing innovation and excellence in application design, development processes, project management, training and more. I was certain I wanted to be a part of the action.

Now boarding for [PLANET ARGON](http://www.planetargon.com). Stay tuned and I'll fill you in on the adventures.
